IO Section (#173)
ankitects/anki-manual: src/editing.md

Things like formatting can be customized, but it is not possible to add
extra card templates to the cloze note type.

## Image Occlusion

Anki 23.10+ supports Image Occlusion cards natively. An Image 

> Occlusion (IO) note is a special case of Cloze Deletion based on images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Occlusion (IO) note is a special case of cloze deletion based on images
```

Things like formatting can be customized, but it is not possible to add
extra card templates to the cloze note type.

## Image Occlusion

> Since v. 23.10 Anki supports Image Occlusion cards natively. An Image 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anki 23.10+ supports Image Occlusion cards natively. An Image 
```

Occlusion (IO) note is a special case of Cloze Deletion based on images
instead of text, and allows you to create cards that hide some parts 
of an image, testing your knowledge of that hidden information. 

![Image Occlusion](media/io.jpg)

### Adding an image

> To add IO cards to your collection, simply add a card, click on "Type"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add IO cards to your collection, open the Add screen, click on "Type"
```

and choose "Image Occlusion" from the list of built-in note types. 
Then, click on "Select Image" to load an image file saved on your 
computer's hard drive, or on "Paste image from clipboard" 

> if you have an image already loaded on the computer's memory. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if you have an image copied to the clipboard. 
```

### Adding IO cards

After loading an image, the IO editor will open. Click on the 
icons on the left to add as many areas to your image as you want. 
There are three basic shapes to choose from:

- Rectangle
- Ellipse
- Polygon

You can also choose between two different IO modes for each note:
- **Hide All, Guess One**: All areas are hidden and only one
area at a time is revealed while learning.
- **Hide One, Guess One**: Only one area at a time is hidden
and will be revealed during learning. The other areas will be visible.

![Image Occlusion Modes](media/io_modes.jpg)

> Once you're done, click on the "Add" icon, at the bottom of the screen. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you're done, click on the "Add" button, at the bottom of the screen. 
```

> Anki will add so many cards as shapes you've added in the previous step, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anki will add a card for each shape or group of shapes you added in the previous step, 
```

and you can start reviewing them normally.  

## Editing IO notes

You can edit your IO notes by clicking on "Edit" while reviewing, 
or directly from the browser. There are several tools that you 
can use, most of them are self-explanatory:

- Select: It allows you selecting one or more shapes to move,
resize, delete or group them. 
- Zoom: You can freely move the image and zoom in or out using the mouse wheel. 
- Shapes (Rectangle, Ellipse or Polygon): Use them to add new shapes / cards.
- Text: It adds text areas to your image. These text areas can be moved,
resized or deleted, but no card will be created when you use this tool. 
- Undo / Redo.
- Zoom In / Out - Reset zoom.
- Toggle Translucency: Use this tool to temporarily view the hidden areas. 
- Delete: Use this tool to delete selected shapes and text areas. Please

> note that deleting a shape won't delete its associated card automatically,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
note that deleting a shape won't delete its associated card automatically;
```

> you will need to use the "Empty Cards" tool afterwards the same you do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you will need to use Tools>Empty Cards afterwards, the same as
```

> with regular clozed notes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with regular cloze deletions.
```

- Duplicate. 
- Group selection: Use this tool to create a cluster of shapes, which will
allow you to move, resize or delete them simultaneously. Please note that

> two or more single shapes will  create only one card once grouped.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
two or more single shapes will create only one card once grouped.  
```

> - Ungroup selection: When ungrouping a cluster of shapes, as many cards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ungroup selection: Select a group and then click this button to make each shape independent again.
```

> as shapes will be created again. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Alignment: This tool can be used to align your shapes / text areas as desired. 

> While reviewing IO Cards a "Toggle Masks" will appear just below the four rating buttons. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While reviewing IO Cards a "Toggle Masks" button will appear just below the image. 
```
